# 1st-coding-assignment
Write three Python Scripts to do Ordinal Encoding, One Hot Encoding, and Imputation Techniques using basic Python functions and Numpy and Pandas libraries, but no pre-defined functions ( eg. get_dummies ).
<br>
Author - Arjav Jain
<br>
I have cleand the data of a csv file named 'Data.csv' containing 11 columns and 20 rows. The given data has missing values in a few columns and it has both numerical and categorical data columns. I have added a csv file 'FinalData.csv' in the folder, this file is the final result after applying all the three techniques i.e. imputation methods, ordinal encoing and one hot encoding.
## 1) ImputationMethods.py
The first method which i have shown is a simpler approach by just simply removing the column/row with the missing values. I have written 2 functions in that one will remove the columns which have a missing value and one will remove the rows.
The second method that i have shown is to fill in the missing values that are there. I have tried to fill in the numerical columns and the categorical columns seperately and created various functions so that it becomes easier and we can just call the function and get the desired result. For the numbers i have created 4 functions they impute the missing values with the mean, mediam, mode and linear interpolation (liner interpolation takes the avg of the values above and below the cell having the missing value) respectively. For the categorical colums i have also written 4 functions, one is common to the numerical columns function where it replaces the mode of the column with the missing value, there is a function for forward filling and backward filling the missing value (in forward filling the missing cell get filled by the value of the previous cell in the column and in backward filling the missing value gets replaced by the value of the next cell in the column). Lastly i have shown an extension to imputation where i have written a function to add the columns which tells if the value in that index was missing or not, this new column gets added for every column that had a missing value. We can pair this last method with the functions in the second part to impute the data.
## 2) OrdinalEncoding.py
In ordinal encoding i have performed the encoded on 3 columns ['Month','Online_Promotion','Product_Quality_Rating']. I have also given the order map of the encoding showing what number i used to encode the columns with. I have shown two methods to perform the encoding one using the '.map()' function and the other using the loop method. In the loop method i have created a function so that it can be used directly.
## 3) OneHotEncoding.py
In one hot encoding also i have created a function so that it can be called directly. I have created the function as such that we have to enter the data and a list of columns that we have to encode by one hot encoding so that it does the work all together.
